The Method of Accomplishment of Ārya Avalokiteśvara
The Practice of Great Compassion & Mahāmudrā in Union
by Chögyal Pakpa

Oṃ svasti siddham!
lama dang könchok sum la chaktsal lo
To the Guru and Three Jewels I bow.
Seated in [vajra] posture on a comfortable cushion:
lama la kyab su chi
To the Gurus I go for refuge.
sangye la kyab su chi
To the Buddhas I go for refuge.
chö la kyab su chi
To the Dharma I go for refuge.
gendün la kyab su chi
To the Saṅgha I go for refuge.
Go for refuge three times.
semchen tamché kyi döndu sangye tobpar ja
For the benefit of all beings I must attain buddhahood.
dé dön du ting ngé dzin zabmo gom
For that purpose I meditate on this profound meditative stabilization.
Meditate on the Enlightenment Thought. Then say:
om sobhaw shuddhah sarwa dhama sobhawa shuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva śuddha sarva dharma svabhāva śuddho ‘ham
Meditate on one's own body purified by un-objectified emptiness.
dené rangnyi kechik gi rinpoche tri pema dang dawé den gyi tengdu
From the state of emptiness, instantly above a jeweled throne, lotus and moon seat,
tukjé chenpo kudok karpo
I [appear] as Mahākāruṇika, with a body white in colour,
shyal chik chakshyipa
One face, four arms.
chak dangpo nyi tukkar talmo jar né
The first two hands are folded at the heart
sangye tamché la semchen gyi dön dzepar kulwa
Supplicating all buddhas to perform the benefit of beings.
yé kyi ok mé trengwa karpo dang
The lower right holds a white mālā;
yön gyi ok mé rinpoche dang chepé pema dzinpa
Lower left a jeweled lotus.
rinpoche ugyen na gyen gulgyen lasokpé rinpoche gyen tamché kyi gyen shying
[Seated with the two feet in vajra posture], adorned with a crown of jewels, earrings, necklace,
all the ornaments of jewels and the like,
darna tsok kyi naza nabpa
And wearing garments of various heavenly garments;
ku lé özer pak tu mepa tröpé semchen gyi dön dzepa
From the body immeasurable rays of light shine forth accomplishing the benefit of beings.
chiwo na sangye tamché kyi yeshe chik tu düpé ngowo ö pak tu mepé ur gyenpa nang la rangshyin
mepa melong gi zuknyen tabur gom la yi chungzé zung
On the crown of the head, gathered into one, is the pristine awareness of all buddhas, Amitābha
as a crown. Meditate on the lack of inherent nature of appearance, like the reflection
in a mirror, meditate holding the mind for a while.
dené chiwö ö pak tu mepa la mik né
Then, observe Amitābha on the crown of the head.
chomdendé deshyin shekpa drachompa yangdakpar dzokpé sangye tsé pak tu mepé dak gi dikpa dang
dribpa tamché jang shying sönam dang yeshe kyi tsok nyurdu gyepa dang
Bhagavan tathāgata arhat samyaksambuddha Amitāyus, I pray, purify all sins and obscurations
and quickly increase the accumulations of merit and wisdom.
yangdakpé ting ngé dzin dampa gyü la kyé né nyurdu ngönpar dzokpar tsanggyawar jingyi lab tu
sol
Give rise to a perfect excellent continuum of meditative concentration, quickly perfected and
completely purified.
Pray three times from the heart. Then, in accordance with the [following] think:
dené dewa dang dukngal dang khorwa dang nya ngen lé depé tsawa tamché rang gi sem yinla
Happiness and suffering, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, the root of all is one's own mind.
sem dé ang tak nakha dok dang yib su ma drub
That mind, examined, is found to have no colour or shape;
chik dang duma yang mayinpé rang gi ngowö tong
[What is] not singular or plural is empty of intrinsic nature.
ngowo mepé wang gi döma né kyewa mepé dangpo gyü tong
By the power of having no intrinsic nature in the beginning, being empty of a first cause, is
non-production.
kyewa mepé chir döpa mepé bardu nepé tong
Because of non-production, without a first, the middle is empty of remaining.
né gyu mepé chir jikpa mepé tama gakpé tongpé shyi dang tsawamé ching tröpa tamché dang dralwa
namkha tabü shyé tröpa ché la
Because of not remaining, by non-disintegration, the middle is empty of ceasing. Without any
basis or roots all [mental] elaborations are free like the sky.
Meditate cutting elaborations, without any characteristics and conceptualizations, and practice
with a relaxed mind, without mental engagement, in a state free of elaboration.
chi né gompa dang
After familiarization,
sem mi tro shying
Without mental fabrication
nang du nepa yün ring du jung
Abide within for a long time.
dené rang gi nyinggar hrih gompa lé ngak kyi trengwa ö kyi tsul du tröpé
Then meditate: in my heart from HRĪḤ, the mantra garland in the manner of light shines forth.
sangye tamché kyi tukjé kul né dak la jin gyi lob ching semchen gyi dön dzepar gom né
The compassion of all the buddhas is invoked; they bless me and accomplish the benefit of beings.
om mani padmé hung
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Recite as much as possible,
After recitation, dedicate: “Through these roots of virtue may we attain the stage of buddhahood.”
At the time of daily activities one's place of dwelling is Sukhāvatī.
Oneself is an attendant of bhagavan Lord Amitāyus with the pride of being Lord Mahākāruṇika,
never separate from thinking of the dwelling place.
Henceforth always perform the yoga; in this life and future lives, cutting obstacles, pacifying
all, and in a future birth born in the realm of Sukhāvatī, to quickly become perfected
with clear realization.

The manner of practice of “Great Compassion and Mahāmudrā in Union,” this profound instruction
of Lord Sakyapa was requested by my student Motön Tsage Zuphur. These brief words were
written by Pagpa in the Male Fire Mouse year [1276], fourth month, eighth day.

| Translated by Jeff Watt, Vancouver, B.C. January 14, 1995. Revised May 18, 1999. Revised October
2008. First published on Lotsawa House, 2021.

Source: Sa skya pa'i bKa' 'Bum, vol.7, page 70-1-4. sGrub Thabs Kun bTus, vol.3, fol.2–5.

Version: 1.0-20210903